being involved with football we was
always told if you show feelings then
it's a sign of weakness but actually
it's a sign of strength so I think
everyone's got it you know completely
mixed up I'm Mike Richards a former
professional footballer for Manchester
City Fiorentina Aston Villa and England
I'm now putting it for BBC and Sky
Sports it really feels like a massive
piece of me has gone I love working I
love getting out I love meeting new
people I feel like I've got all this
energy inside me that's built up that I
can't and I can't use exercising for me
is is so vital you can just shut off the
world you know you can get into the zone
it helps with my mental health massively
when I was playing for us to Villa are
supposed to be the style man and it
didn't it didn't work out the way it was
supposed to be and I got abused I've got
abuse probably every single day four
foot four six months later it be Twitter
Instagram and I just remember I just
remember it like going home and just
just crying to myself and I don't really
tell how much people buy it but I did I
was always crying go home and cry and
when people see me the size of me the
thing you know a big strong man but I
was you know I was I was her I don't
want to say I was depressed but I was
low where I felt wealth worthless I fell
lonely didn't think I could speak to
anyone I didn't think I would be able to
get out of that way of thinking luckily
I had a good friend he just tried to
make me look at life in a different
perspective instead of focusing on the
negatives let's focus on the positive
I've really enjoyed speaking to family
and friends spending especially more
time with my son just like making you
know his breakfast in the morning or put
him to bed at night it's definitely
helped with my mental health because it
just it feels like you've got a purpose
it feels like you creating a a better
bond
[Music]
sometimes he's scared of what then
people would would think about you I
remember plenty of times when I was
playing football and people ask me are
you alright and the first thing I would
say is well yeah cause I'm talking about
Horseman right yeah but I wasn't alright
I needed someone to talk to
I've been there many many times and I
look back now and just think you know
what I should have just been honest and
said I wasn't because you can only heal
and he can only move forward if you're
honest with yourself and when you bottle
everything up inside it only makes the
situation way worse
[Music]
you just have to be there for someone
you know as as busy as we can be talk to
them don't let him brush off any real
feelings I've had you know a cousin of
mine who's who's on lockdown alone and I
know he he sort of thinks about things a
lot at the best of times so I know now
he's really struggling so I'm making
sure I'm talking with him frequently
making sure that he's he's alright don't
feel like you're gonna be weak or don't
feel any less of a man because you need
to speak to someone about how you
feeling don't take it as a weakness take
it as a strength